Actions are quite possibly
the simplest part of the entire thing.
An action is nothing more than an object
that has a type and a payload, that's it.
It's simply saying,
this is what happened, and
this is what we need to communicate
in terms of that event.
So, if I create a new widget, I'll have
a createWidget action item with a type,
and then I'll pass in that
new widget to be processed.
Now, what I want to point out here,
notice that widgets, or the actions,
it doesn't have a test,
because there's nothing to them.
There's no point in testing actions.
They don't do anything.
They're nothing more
than a data structure.
In fact, I think if I click on this,
let me see here.
So, what I'd like to do, in code,
is basically click through and
look at the type definitions.
And it's really interesting
what you can find.
So, the interface for an action, the only
thing that it has to have is type,
that's it.
There are actions that you simply
are signaling something happened,
you don't need to pass any data.
And then from there, what you can do is,
you can decorate that object
with additional properties.
But, an action is nothing more than a data
structure with a type describing what
it is, and then additional properties.
All right, so, actions.
Okay, cool, this is all we're using to,
essentially, communicate.
Then, within our facade,
we are somewhat familiar with this.
All this does is When something happens,
it dispatches an action.
So, facades do two things.
Dispatches actions and
allows you to select data from the store.
Now, one thing I like to do, as well,
is, I like to click on this.
And if you look at the interface,
it's select and dispatch.
These are really the two methods that you
would just use over, and over, and over.
And this is the only way, or really,
the only interaction that I ever have with
the store, store.select, store.dispatch.
So, so far, so good.
We're communicating events via actions.
And using store.select,
we're able to get data back.
So, where's this data coming from?
Well, this gets a little interesting.
So, we're getting a little more complex,
but not by much.
So here, we are defining our state,
the shape of the state.
What does our application state look like?
Well, we have a selectedId, loaded, error.
And there are some other things
that come from EntityState.
I'll explain what that
is in just a moment.
And all we're doing at this point is,
we're defining the shape of the state and
creating this entity adapter.
Now, let's go down, and
what does the adapter do?
Has anyone ever tried to, and
you've seen me do it today,
at some point, but,
manipulate a large collection?
So, if I gave you, here's 100 things,
and you need to find the one thing and
you need to manipulate it.
Well, it gets tedious, especially, when
you're doing it over, and over, and over.
So, what entity does, is it streamlines
the ability to modify that collection.
So, what you can do, for instance,
is I want to set all of the widgets on
the adapter, or I want to upsertOne.
So, what that is,
is I'm either gonna insert or update.
[LAUGH] That's so clever.
Add one, update one, remove one.
This adapter is handling the underlying
collection manipulation on your behalf.
And so, on success,
we're doing it on failure.
We're just servicing an error message
of some sort, we're handling it.
So, now a reducer.
All a reducer does, is it listens for
an action based on the action type.
It performs some operation and
returns new state.
So, you can just think of this as
a single inflection point where,
in this case,
I want to reset the selected widget.
Well, how would I do that?
Well, I set the selectedId to null.
And so when
WidgetActions.resetSelectedWidget comes
in, so, it's listening for an action type.
It comes in, it performs that operation.
And then it returns, essentially,
new state to then be shared across
the rest of the application.
And so, if we stop and
we just think for just a second,
That we already are kind
of familiar with this
idea of separation between data and state.
That we're querying the data and
we're separating it from the commands and
the querying of state, itself.
So, data comes in, or
actions come in and updates.
And then, when under the hood,
what does it do?
In the previous module,
how did we handle that?
subject.next.
So, if we look in the store,
under the hood, it's an observable stream.
That when you pass a new state,
it's just propagating that down
the observable stream to be updated.
And so, think of it simply as
an action comes in with some data,
it updates the state,
and then via that it's observable
stream it communicates it back down.
So, this is kind of the arc.
At the top, actions come up,
it hits the store,
and then it's communicated
back down via state.
And then finally, well,
I'll show you this real quick.
Selectors are pretty straightforward.
They're nothing more than really queries.
They're functions that
can take other selectors.
That returns slices of state.
And so, I wanna get, for
instance, the SelectedWidgetId.
Well, it takes the state and
then returns just that slice.
And so, it's a way to, essentially,
write these prepackaged queries.